README.md, before:

# arthistory [![Sync](https://github.com/brandongregoryscott/arthistory/actions/workflows/sync.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/brandongregoryscott/arthistory/actions/workflows/sync.yml)

A repository for tracking Spotify artist changes over time.

## How it works

Every day the [`Sync`](./.github/workflows/sync.yml) workflow will run a Ruby script that hits the [Spotify API](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/tutorials/getting-started) with the artist ids in the [`artists.json`](./input/artists.json) file. The data is saved by id in the [`output`](./output) directory, committed and pushed to the repository.

## Adding artists

Artist ids can be found by copying & pasting a link to the artist's profile from the Spotify web or desktop applications, which will be in the format: `https://open.spotify.com/artist/:artistId`. This id can then be added to the array in the [`artists.json`](./input/artists.json) file.

## Development

To run the script locally, you'll need [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/) installed. You'll also need a [Spotify Web API key](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/tutorials/getting-started).

```sh
bundle install
CLIENT_IDS=abc123 CLIENT_SECRETS=xyz456 ruby src/main.rb
```

### Reference

This repository was inspired by a project for tracking Spotify changes that I didn't end up finishing. A few years later, [_Git scraping: track changes over time by scraping to a Git repository_](https://simonwillison.net/2020/Oct/9/git-scraping/) by Simon Willison showed up on HackerNews and inspired me to implement the core of my idea.

Commit message:

docs: update readme for expand history script, fix path for main sync script

README.md, after:

# arthistory [![Sync](https://github.com/brandongregoryscott/arthistory/actions/workflows/sync.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/brandongregoryscott/arthistory/actions/workflows/sync.yml)

A repository for tracking Spotify artist changes over time.

## How it works

Every day the [`Sync`](./.github/workflows/sync.yml) workflow will run a Ruby script that hits the [Spotify API](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/tutorials/getting-started) with the artist ids in the [`artists.json`](./input/artists.json) file. The data is saved by id in the [`output`](./output) directory, committed and pushed to the repository.

## Adding artists

Artist ids can be found by copying & pasting a link to the artist's profile from the Spotify web or desktop applications, which will be in the format: `https://open.spotify.com/artist/:artistId`. This id can then be added to the array in the [`artists.json`](./input/artists.json) file.

````

## Development

To run the sync script locally, you'll need [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/) installed. You'll also need a [Spotify Web API key](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/tutorials/getting-started).

```sh
bundle install
CLIENT_IDS=abc123 CLIENT_SECRETS=xyz456 ruby scripts/sync.rb
````

## Expanding the git history

The git history for an artist can be expanded into a JSON file that contains an object for each snapshot of the artist's metadata. This file can be uploaded to a database or dropped into a charting library to visualize the changes over time.

To expand an artist's history, run the `expand_artist_history.rb` script with the id of the artist as a command-line argument:

```sh
ruby scripts/expand_artist_history.rb 6lcwlkAjBPSKnFBZjjZFJs

### Reference

This repository was inspired by a project for tracking Spotify changes that I didn't end up finishing. A few years later, [_Git scraping: track changes over time by scraping to a Git repository_](https://simonwillison.net/2020/Oct/9/git-scraping/) by Simon Willison showed up on HackerNews and inspired me to implement the core of my idea.
```
